# nbdev_learn

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

## About this file (index.ipynb)

NBdev will convert this file (index.ipynb) into the README.md file for
the project.

## What is nbdev_learn

`nbdev_learn` is a simple Python Notebook github based project intended
as a simple example of how to use the `nbdev` tools to generate: \* a
python package, \* python modules, \* online web based documentation, \*
continous Integration (CI).

All from one or more Jupyter Notebooks.

# What github provides

- LICENSE

# What the user must provide

The project consists of two module files, `libA` and `libB` each
containing two very simple python functions, and a Makefile.

They are organized as: \* nbdev_learn \* libA.py \* func_a() \* func_b()
\* libB.py \* func_d() \* func_e()

## What NBdev adds to the project

- settings.ini
- setup.py
- /nbs
- /nbdev_learn

`libA.py` is generated from the source python notebook `00_libA.ipynb`
and `libB.py` is generated by `10_libB.ipynb`.

## The process of building `nbdev_learn` package using JupyterLab

1.  Create github repository using your browser.
2.  Generate ssh key for the repository.
3.  git clone the repository.
4.  Run `nbdev_new`: This populates the project repository.
5.  Populated `nbdev_learn/nbs` folder with notebook files
    `00_libA.ipynb` and `10_libB.ipynb`. These are the files that the
    package will be generated from. They contain the function defs., as
    well as the testing and example code.
6.  Created the Makefile and populated it with all of the operations
    that will be used to build up the package during development.

## Notes

#### Most useful directives

All of the directives can be found at:
https://nbdev.fast.ai/explanations/directives.html

    #|default_exp <name>      Sets the export module name to <name>.
    #|export                  Exports the following cell.
    #|hide                    
    #|code-fold: <show|true>  true to collapse, show makes it expanded.
    #|exporti                 Exports the items in the cell into the generated module and documentation but not part of the public api.

#### Full list of directives

A full list of all nbdev commands can be viewed by running `nbdev_help`.

``` python
!nbdev_help
```

    nbdev_bump_version        Increment version in settings.ini by one
    nbdev_changelog           Create a CHANGELOG.md file from closed and labeled GitHub issues
    nbdev_clean               Clean all notebooks in `fname` to avoid merge conflicts
    nbdev_conda               Create a `meta.yaml` file ready to be built into a package, and optionally build and upload it
    nbdev_create_config       Create a config file.
    nbdev_docs                Create Quarto docs and README.md
    nbdev_export              Export notebooks in `path` to Python modules
    nbdev_filter              A notebook filter for Quarto
    nbdev_fix                 Create working notebook from conflicted notebook `nbname`
    nbdev_help                Show help for all console scripts
    nbdev_install             Install Quarto and the current library
    nbdev_install_hooks       Install Jupyter and git hooks to automatically clean, trust, and fix merge conflicts in notebooks
    nbdev_install_quarto      Install latest Quarto on macOS or Linux, prints instructions for Windows
    nbdev_merge               Git merge driver for notebooks
    nbdev_migrate             Convert all markdown and notebook files in `path` from v1 to v2
    nbdev_new                 Create an nbdev project.
    nbdev_prepare             Export, test, and clean notebooks, and render README if needed
    nbdev_preview             Preview docs locally
    nbdev_proc_nbs            Process notebooks in `path` for docs rendering
    nbdev_pypi                Create and upload Python package to PyPI
    nbdev_readme              None
    nbdev_release_both        Release both conda and PyPI packages
    nbdev_release_gh          Calls `nbdev_changelog`, lets you edit the result, then pushes to git and calls `nbdev_release_git`
    nbdev_release_git         Tag and create a release in GitHub for the current version
    nbdev_sidebar             Create sidebar.yml
    nbdev_test                Test in parallel notebooks matching `path`, passing along `flags`
    nbdev_trust               Trust notebooks matching `fname`
    nbdev_update              Propagate change in modules matching `fname` to notebooks that created them

### Youtube Videos

- [nbdev tutorial by Jeremy Howard and Hamel
  Husain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67FdzLSt4aA)
- [nbdev live coding with Hamel
  Husain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZJTop5uqC2U)

## Install

``` sh
pip install nbdev_learn
```

## How to use nbdev_learn

Use nbdev_learn to try different things and experiment with the code.

Lets’ start by importind the libA module as `nba`.

``` python
import nbdev_learn.libA as nba
```

Let’s also import libB as `nbb`.

``` python
import nbdev_learn.libB as nbb
```

We can now examine `nba` and `nbb` using the `?` feature.

``` python
nba?
```

    Type:        module
    String form: <module 'nbdev_learn.libA' from '/home/jovyan/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/libA.py'>
    File:        ~/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/libA.py
    Docstring:   <no docstring>

``` python
nbb?
```

    Type:        module
    String form: <module 'nbdev_learn.libB' from '/home/jovyan/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/libB.py'>
    File:        ~/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/libB.py
    Docstring:   <no docstring>

``` python
nba.func_a()
```

    "This returned from func_a( a='A', b='B')"

``` python
nba.func_b()
```

    "This returned from func_b(c='C', d='D')"

``` python
nba.func_b( c = 'CCCCC')
```

    "This returned from func_b(c='CCCCC', d='D')"

``` python
nba.func_a()
```

    "This returned from func_a( a='A', b='B')"

``` python
nbb.func_c()
```

    "This returned from func_c(c='A', cc='B')"

``` python
nbb.func_d()
```

    "This returned from func_b(d='C', dd='D')"

``` python
import nbdev_learn as nbl
```

``` python
nbl.libA.func_a()
```

    "This returned from func_a( a='A', b='B')"

``` python
nbl.libB.func_c()
```

    "This returned from func_c(c='A', cc='B')"

``` python
nbl.__version__
```

    '0.0.3'

``` python
nbl??
```

    Type:        module
    String form: <module 'nbdev_learn' from '/home/jovyan/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/__init__.py'>
    File:        ~/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn/__init__.py
    Source:      __version__ = "0.0.3"

``` python
nbl.__path__
```

    ['/home/jovyan/work/github-projects/nbdev_learn/nbdev_learn']

``` python
from nbdev_learn import libA as la
```

``` python
from nbdev_learn import libA
```

## References

- [NBdev End-To-End
  Walkthrough](https://nbdev.fast.ai/tutorials/tutorial.html)
- [github nbdev repo](https://github.com/fastai/nbdev)
- [Online docs for nbdev_learn](https://lidar532.github.io/nbdev_learn/)
  generated by nbdev.
- [nbdev+Quarto: A new secret weapon for
  productivity](https://www.fast.ai/posts/2022-07-28-nbdev2.html)
- [Google Python Style
  Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#381-docstrings)
- [Literate
  Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming)
- [Read–eval–print
  loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop)
  **R**ead, **E**valuate, **P**rint, **L**oop
- [Exploratory
  programming:](https://deepnote.com/blog/exploratory-programming) what
  it is, why it matters & what it requires
- [Software
  Artifact](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artifact_(software_development))
